---
title: "Review of Atmospheric Measurements"
date: 2026-06-12
permalink: /posts/2026/06/atmospheric-measurements/
mathjax: true
tags:
  - Measurements
  - CloudPhysics
---
# Review
This is a review of atmospheric measurements, including lots of instruments and methods for aerosols and clouds.

## LECTURE 1: AEROSOL CONCENTRATION AND SIZE
### 1.1 Theory
The number concentrations, scalar, and components of aerosol determines the number concentrations of Cloud Condensation Nuclei and cloud droplets, which in turn determines the scalar of cloud droplets and reflectivity of clouds on sunlights.

Aerosol with $D> 0.1\mu m$ can be activated into cloud droplets (**(NH4)2SO4 with $D > 0.1\mu m$ can be activated into cloud droplets under supersaturation 0.1%**).

Mass concentrations and components of aerosols determine air quality (like PM2.5/PM10).

Size distribution can reveal the machanism of aerosol's formation, aging, and evolutions, like secondary organic aerosols. It can help us to understand the source and transport of aerosols. This is needed for examining and improving the chemical parameterizations.

#### 1.1.1 Number concentrations of aerosols
Different areas has different aerosol number concentrations.
|           area          |number conc.(\#/cm3) |D>0.1\mu m conc.(\#/cm3) |
|:-----------------------:|:-------------------:|:-----------------------:|
|          urban          |       1e5-4e6       |        **1000s**        |
|          rural          |       2e3-1e4       |      **100s-1000**      |
|          inland         |       5e1-1e4       |       **10s-100s**      |
|          marine         |     **1e2-4e2**     |        almost all       |
|          polar          |      **10-50**      |        almost all       |
| mid-to-high troposphere |        10-100       |            /            |



#### 1.1.2 Mass concentrations of aerosols
Air quality standard is based on mass concentration. From total suspended particles into inhalable particles like PM2.5/PM10.

#### 1.1.3 Effective scalar
The shape of dry aerosol particles (like Black Carbon) is usually non-spherical, therefore effective scalar is used to describe their size and size distribution. The effective scalar is **almost same** measuring from different methods. Wet aerosols are usually spherical.


#### 1.1.4 Scalar of aerosols (fine mode & coarse mode)
The size of aerosols can vary from several nanometers to several hundreds micrometers (**5 orders of magnitude**).

Aerosols with $D<2.5\mu m$ are called as fine particles (fine mode, PM2.5), while $D>2/5\mu m$ are called coarse particles (coarse mode). In fine mode, aerosol can be divided into nuclei mode(**Aitkin nuclei mode**, $D<0.1\mu m$) and accumulation mode($0.1 \mu m < D < 2.5\mu m$).

Fine mode: organics, black carbon, and sulfates;
Coarse mode: sea salt, dust;
> Note: Sometimes there is nucleation mode when $D<0.03\mu m$, which can be observed easily at position where new particles forming.

> Note: Atikin nuclei mode can grow into accumulation mode through Brownian collision. However, accumulation mode collide slowly and can not form coarse mode by collision. It can be removed only by wet settlement (i.e. as CCN). Coarse particles can be removed by dry or wet settlement.

**Cloud droplets are activated from accumulation mode mainly.**

Particles with different scalars have different measurements. For example, Differential Mobility Analyzer are used to measure particles with $D<1\mu m$, while Optical Particle Counter can measure with $0.1\mu m <D < 100\mu m$, and Aerodynamic Particle Sizer can measure with $D>0.3\mu m$.
#### 1.1.5 Size distributions of aerosols
Data from different routines have different size ranges. It is necessary to divide particle size range into equal spacing, count its number, and normalize the number concentration into $\frac{\Delta N_i}{\Delta D_i}$, with unit from \#/cm3 to \#/(cm3 $\mu m$).

While there has a large range of particle size, it is usually to use log coordinates to indicate the particle size. That is $\frac{\Delta N_i}{(\Delta \ln D)_i}$, where $(\Delta \ln D)_i = \Delta \ln \frac{D_i}{D_0} - \Delta \ln \frac{D_{i-1}}{D_0}$, therefore **$\Delta \ln D$ is dimensionless**.
### 1.2 Measurement
#### 1.2.1 Measurement of aerosol number concentrations
##### 1.2.1.1 Aitkin Nuclei Counter
The supersaturation of air reaches 200%-400% through adiabatic expansion, leading to all vapor condensing on almost all aerosols to form cloud droplets. The concentration of cloud droplets through optical methods is considered as the concentration of aerosols.

**Condensation Particle Counter** or Condensation Nucleus Counter have same principles. CPC can measure online, the gaseous supersaturated substance can be water or other organic gas. The minimum size of aerosols can be measured is about 3 nm.

The number concentration can be obtained by **integrating over the particle size distribution**, indicating all instruments measuring size distribution can be used to measure number concentrations.

#### 1.2.2 Measurement of aerosol mass concentrations
Online continuous measurement:
- Measure the increase in **fliter membrane mass**
  - Mass concentration can be obtained through the increase in filter membrane mass and gas sample volume.
  - High precision with several nanograms.
  - Quartz Crystal Microbalance, mass increase of fliter membrane can decrease the vabration frequency.
  - The absorption and evaporation of moisture and trace gases can lead to uncertainty.
  - Install a filter (cutter head) at the inlet to first remove particles larger than a certain size, like PM2.5/PM10.
- Automatic, high temporal resolution BETA table.
  - The rate of beta-ray attenuation is proportional to the total number of electrons carried by all atoms, that is, it is proportional to the total mass of the aerosol.


#### 1.2.3 Measurement of aerosol scalar
**Measuring both particle size and particel number.**
Different scalar needs different measurement due to the large aerosol size range.
Including three online methods and offline methods.
- optics(Optical Particle Counter), $0.1\mu m <D < 100\mu m$
- electrics(Differential Mobility Analyzer), $D<1\mu m$
- air dynamics(Aerodynamic Particle Sizer), $D>0.3\mu m$
  - UV-APS, exposure to ultraviolet light to measure the particle spectrum distribution of fluorescing particles like biological aerosols.


Offline methods include membrane sampling, scanning electronic microscopy, and transmission electronic microscopy.
This method can not measure online and lead to large errors for volatile substances.



##### 1.2.3.1 Optical Particle Counter

**Mie scattering is the principle of optical methods measuring aerosols. According to Mie scattering, the intensity of scattered light is proportional to the particle's size.(Must be calibrated in advance)**
Measurement of cloud particles needs optical methods especially.
**The amplitude of the scattered light pulse indicates particle size, while the number of pulses indicates particle count. Based on gas flow velocity, the size distribution can be determined.**

- Ensure only one particle can through measurement area, therefore the particle stream needs to be diluted.
- Two particles will be identified into a larger whole particle.
- Particle will be detected smaller if through the edge of the light field.
- Refractive index and shape(usually sphere) need to be assumed.
- Passive Cavity Aerosol Spectrometer Probe

##### 1.2.3.2 Differential Mobility Analyzer

**The particle electrical mobility is inversely proportional to its size.**
**Let a particle carries a single charge, only those particles with a suitable electromobility(i.e., of an appropriate size) can be collected and measured. If a particles carries two or more charges, this will result in errors.**

- Adjust the intensity of electric field can select aerosols with different size.
- Single DMA can filter size only, then OPC will measure the number concentration with filtered size.
- Resolution of size is high, with range $3 nm$ to $1\mu m$. DMA is used measuring fine mode and Second Organic Aerosols.
- Long time due to adjustment of intensity of electric fields.
- Scanning Mobility Particle Sizer and Differential Mobility Particle Sizer

An aerosol particle with charges $q$ moves in electric fields with atmospheric drag $F_d$. The equation is:
$$
m\frac{du}{dt} = qE-F_d = qE-\frac{6\pi \mu r u}{C_c}
$$
where \mu is viscosity coefficient, $C_c$ is Cunningham Correction factor considering the correction of non-continuous fluid when particle's size is small.
Therefore the equilibrium is
$$u_e = \frac{qEC_c}{6\pi\mu r} = EB_e, \quad B_e =\frac{qC_c}{6\pi \mu r}$$
where $B_e$ is electrical mobility.
Given $E$ and $q = e$, only aerosols with suitable size $r$ have suitable mobility $B_e$ to have suitable velocity to be selected and counted.

##### 1.2.3.3 Aerodynamic Particle Sizer
**Based on fluid dynamics, smaller particles can move with accelerated flow more easily.**
**Given a fixed distance, the duration can be measured by optics. Smaller particles have shorter time, therefore the duration can determine the size. Optical methords give numbers at the same time.**
- The inertia of smaller particles is too little and smaller particles is rayleigh scattering while conuting the number.
- Better than single OPC since no need to assume refractive index or shape.
- Besides, scatter light can be measured and compare with APS to predict the refractive index and shape.

##### 1.2.3.4 Scanning Electronic Microscopy
Just watch and measure, can not online.

## LECTURE 2: AEROSOL COMPOSITION AND HYGROSCOPICITY
### 2.1 Theory
Chemical Composition helps to understand the source, formation mechanisms, and evolutions of aerosols. This can verify and improve aerosol model. Chemical compostion is related to air quality, and determine the hygroscopic growth characterisics, which in turn determine the optical characteristics like extinction and visibility and capability as CCN in Kohler theory.

#### 2.1.1 Chemical Composition
##### 2.1.1.1 Ionic species
Sulfates, nitrates, chlorides, organic acids.
Mainly from the burning of fossil fuels, as well as sea salt.
The composition in fine mode and coarse mode are different.
##### 2.1.1.2 Crustal species
Al, Si, Ca, Fe, Ti.
Mainly present in coarse mode in the form of oxides, like dust.
##### 2.1.1.3 Organic Carbon
POM: particulate organic matters
POA: primary organic aerosol
SOA: secondary organic aerosol
SIA: secondary inorganic aerosol
WSOC: water soluble organic compounds

Source of POM, including POA and SOA. POA is from burning and chemical process, usually natural; SOA is from human acticity like cooking, cars. Besides, forests is a significant source of Volatile Organic Aerosols.
##### 2.1.1.4 Black Carbon
Small, nearly spherical carbon particles (measuring tens of nanometers) aggragate together, from the burning of fossil fuels and biomass.

#### 2.1.2 Mixing State
**External mixture and internal mixture (including non-uniform mixing, like black carbon within sulfates)**

Aging refers to changes in the chmical composition of aerosols during transport at atmosphere. **Aging make aerosols more like internal mixture.**


#### 2.1.3 Hygroscopic Growth Factor $f$
The ratio of the size of aerosol under a given humidty and the size of dry aerosol (i.e., RH=0%) is hygroscopic growth factor. "The size" can be defined by three ways so there are three hygroscopic growth factor.
$$
f_m(RH) = \frac{m(RH)}{m(dry)},f_D(RH) = \frac{D(RH)}{D(dry)},f_\sigma(RH) = \frac{\sigma(RH)}{\sigma(dry)}
$$
levitation method uausally use $f_m$.

**Hygroscopic growth factor must under a given humidity. The aerosol composition determines the hygroscopic growth factor, therefore composition, mixing state, and hygroscopicity parameter $\kappa$ can be inferred from $f$.**
> NOTE: For example, non-hygroscopic aerosol like BC or dust, $f(RH)\approx 1$, there will be aging if their $f(RH)>1$.
#### 2.1.4 Hygroscopicity Parameter $\kappa$
**Kohler theory**
Considering solute and curvature effect, the equilibrium water vapor saturation ratio at the surface of a liquid droplet is
$$
S_K = \frac{e_{eq}}{e_s} = a_w\exp(\frac{2\sigma}{n_LR^*Tr_d})\\
a_w =\frac{p_{sol}}{p_0} = \gamma x_w \approx x_w = \frac{N_w}{N_w+iN_s} \approx 1-i\frac{N_s}{N_w} = 1-\frac{i\rho_s V_s}{M_s}\cdot \frac{M_w}{\rho_w V_w}
$$
**The size and composition of aerosols are necessary for calculating the solute effect.**
For solute effects of complex composition, there is $\kappa$-Kohler theory:
$$
\kappa = \frac{i\rho_s V_s}{M_s}
$$
Therefore
$$
a_w = \frac{V_w}{V_w+\kappa V_s} \approx 1-\frac{\kappa V_s}{V_w}
$$
How to get $\kappa$ for calculating solute effects?
- Method 1: From hygroscopic growth factor $f$;
  - Assume $V = V_s+V_w$, so $$
  RH = \frac{p_{air}}{p_0} \approx a_w = \frac{V-V_s}{V-V_s+\kappa V_s} = \frac{D^3-D_0^3}{D^3-D_0^3+\kappa D_0^3} = \frac{f_D^3(RH)-1}{f_D^3(RH)+(\kappa-1)}
  $$
  Measure $f_D$ to get $\kappa$, higher $\kappa$ indicates stronger solute effect.
- Method 2: From CCN, later in LECTURE 4;

### 2.2 Measurement
#### 2.2.1 Chemical Composition
Online: **Particle-Into-Liquid Sampler-Ion Chromatography**, **PILS-TOC** measuring WSOC, Anthelometer, **Aerosol Mass Spectrometer**;
Offline: **Ion Chromatography**, **Scanning Electron Microscope with Energy Dispersive X-ray analysis**, TEM for size, phase, and shape, Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometer, Atomic Absorption Spectrometry;

##### 2.2.1.1 Ion Chromatography
Offline: After sampling the filter membrane and dissolving it in water, the ion concentration can be determined using ion chromatography (IC).
Online: Ion Chromatography with Particle-Into-Liquid Sampler.

##### 2.2.1.2 PILS-TOC Analyzer
Organic matter dissolved in water is oxidized into carbon dioxide.

##### 2.2.1.3 Aerosol Mass Spectrometer
Online
- generate particle beam;
- measure particle size by optical or aerodynamical method (OPC/APS);
- vaporization and ionization;
- accelerate into mass analyzer;
  - magnetic sector: ions in magnetic field to get e/m;
  - time-of-flight: accelerate time to get mass;
  - quadrupole: alternating voltage to get e/m;
  - ion trap: alternating voltage to get mass;

##### 2.2.1.4 SEM/EDX
offline: X-ray to inspire electrons into free.


#### 2.2.2 Hygroscopic Growth Factor $f$
offline: single particle levitation $f_m(RH)$;
online: HTDMA $f_D(RH)$, nephelometer $f_\sigma(RH)$

##### 2.2.2.1 Single Particle Levitation
The charged particle is suspended by an alternating electric field; however, the electric field strength is zero at the particle's location. The purpose of the static electric field is to measure the particle's mass (and charge).

**Vertical**: $qE_z = \frac{4\pi}{3} \rho g a^3$, therefore $\frac{a^3}{a_0^3} = \frac{V_z}{V_{z0}}$ to get $f_m(RH)$.

**Horizontal**(if needed): $qE_y = 6\pi \mu v a$ to get mass.

> NOTE: There might be discharge, so voltage maybe over estimated, and so for $f_m$.


##### 2.2.2.2 Hygroscopic Tandem Differential Mobility Analyzer
Two DMA, the first is at lower relative humidty to filter dry aerosols with specific size, and the second is at higher target RH to measure wet size distribution.
- Fixed RH, hygroscopic growth factor of dey aerosols with different sizes;
- Fixed dry size, hygroscopic growth factor of this size under different RH;

**Wet modes indicate mixing states (two or more indicating external mixture)**.

##### 2.2.2.3 Nephelometer $f_\sigma(RH)$
Principles in LECTURE 3.

## LECTURE 3: AEROSOL OPTICAL PROPERTIES
Parameters of scattering and absorption processes.
- For single particle: 
  - Scatering/Absorption/Extinction cross section, single-scattering albedo;
  - Scattering ability in various direction: scattering function, phase function, asymmetry factor;
- For air volume:
  - Scattering/Absorption/Extinction Coefficient, single-scattering albedo;
  - Scattering ability in various direction: backscattering coefficient, phase function, asymmetry factor;
  - Optical properties with mixing states;
  - Visibility and extinction coefficient;
- For air colume:
  - Optical depth (usually extinction);


### 3.1 Theory
#### 3.1.1 Single Particle
**Scattering Cross Section**
The total energy scattered by the particle in all directions is equal to the energy excerpted by this area from the incident light. Unit area.
$$
\sigma_s = Q_s\pi r^2
$$
**Absorption Cross Section $\sigma_s$**
The total energy absorbed by the particle is equal to the energy excerpted by this area from the incident light. Unit area.
$$
\sigma_a = Q_a\pi r^2
$$
**Absorption Cross Section $\sigma_a$**
The total energy extincted by the particle is equal to the energy excerpted by this area from the incident light. Unit area.
$$
\sigma_e = Q_e\pi r^2 = (Q_s+Q_a)\pi r^2 = \sigma_s+\sigma_a
$$
**Single scattering abledo $\omega$**
The ratio of scattering in extinction.
$$
\omega_0 = \frac{\sigma_s}{\sigma_s+\sigma_a}
$$
**Scattering function $\sigma(\theta, \varphi)$**
The scattering cross section per unit solid angle in a given direction. Therefore, the integral of the scattering function over the entire solid angle is the scattering cross section. 
$$
\sigma_s = \int_{4\pi} \sigma(\theta,\varphi)d\Omega
$$
**Phase function $P(\theta, \varphi)$**
The ratio of the scattering function in a given direction to the average scattering function. 
$$
P(\theta,\varphi) = \frac{\sigma(\theta,\varphi)}{\frac{\sigma_s}{4\pi}} = \frac{4\pi\sigma(\theta,\varphi)}{\sigma_s}
$$
**Asymmetry factor $g$**
The asymmetry in forward and backward scattering of a particle.
$$
g = \frac{\int\cos\theta\sigma(\theta,\varphi)d\Omega}{\int\sigma(\theta,\varphi)d\Omega} = \frac{1}{\sigma_s}\int\cos\theta\sigma(\theta,\varphi)d\Omega
$$
#### 3.1.2 Air volume
When there is no cloud, the scattering, absorption, and extinction capabilities of air per unit volume are the sum of those of all air molecules and aerosol particles.

When there is cloud, scattering is leaded by cloud particles due to large size, the scatter of air molecules and aerosol particles can be neglected.

**Independent scatter**
When the distance of particles is larger than several wavelengths, scatter from each particles can be treated independently, which is usually the case in atmosphere.

Therefore, for single air volume (assume no cloud):

**Scattering coefficient** (unit, per kilometer):
$$
k_s = N^m\sigma_s^m+\int_0^\infty n^a(r)\sigma_s^a(r)dr
$$
**Absorption coefficient** (unit, per kilometer):
$$
k_a = N^m\sigma_a^m+\int_0^\infty n^a(r)\sigma_a^a(r)dr
$$
**Extinction coefficient** (unit, per kilometer):
$$
k_e = N^m\sigma_e^m+\int_0^\infty n^a(r)\sigma_e^a(r)dr = k_s + k_e
$$
**Single scattering albedo $\omega$**:
$$
\omega = \frac{k_s}{k_s+k_a}
$$
**Backscattering coefficient $\beta(\pi)$**:
The sum of the scattering functions of all particles at an angle of 180 degrees.
$$
\beta(\pi) = N^m\sigma^m(\pi) + \int n^a(r)\sigma^a(\pi) dr
$$
At some specific direction:
$$
\beta(\theta, \varphi) = N^m\sigma^m(\theta,\varphi) + \int n^a(r)\sigma^a(\theta,\varphi) dr
$$
**Phase function $P(\theta, \varphi)$**
The ratio of the scattering function in a given direction to the average scattering function. 
$$
P(\theta,\varphi) =\frac{4\pi (N^m\sigma^m(\theta,\varphi) + \int n^a(r)\sigma^a(\theta,\varphi) dr)}{k_s}
$$
**Asymmetry factor $g$**
The asymmetry in forward and backward scattering of a particle.
$$
g = \frac{\int\cos\theta\int n^a(r)\sigma^a(\theta,\varphi) drd\Omega}{\int\int n^a(r)\sigma^a(\theta,\varphi) drd\Omega}
$$

Different mixing state leads to different scattering, absorption, and extinction coefficient.
Compared with external mixture, internal state of ammonium sulfate and black carbon has a lower scattering coefficient, higher absorption coefficient and unchanged extinction coefficient.

**Visibility and extinction coefficient**
$$
R = \frac{1}{k_e}\ln \frac{1}{\epsilon} = \frac{3.91}{k_e}
$$

#### 3.1.3 Air colume
**Aerosol optical depth or thickness**
The sum of the extinction coefficients along a path.
$$
\tau(\lambda) = \int_{s_1}^{s_2} k_e(\lambda)ds,\quad \tau(\lambda) = \int_{0}^{\infty} k_e(\lambda)dz
$$
### 3.2 Measurement
**Beer/Bouguer-Lambert law**
$$
F(\lambda,s_2) = F(\lambda,s_1)\exp (-\tau(\lambda)) = F(\lambda,s_1)\exp(-\int_{s_1}^{s_2}k_e(\lambda)ds)
$$
#### 3.2.1 Scattering phase function
Online: polar nephelometer.
A laser beam is directed at an atmospheric sample, and a detector is used to measure the intensity distribution of the scattered light from various angles.

#### 3.2.2 Scattering coefficient
Online: Integrating nephelometer, **nephelometer**.

Combined two nephelometers together, we can get the hygroscopic growth factor $f_\sigma(RH)$. One at a relatively low RH and the other at a relatively high RH.

#### 3.2.3 Absorption coefficient
Online
- filter membrane ane measure its transmittance: **Aethalometer**, **PSAP**, MAAP
  - Minimize the effect of scattering on transmittance and measure it using optical methods.
- optics.
  - The sample gas in the measurement chamber is illuminated by a laser with modulated intensity; the absorbent aerosols in the gas absorb this energy, heating the gas and causing the pressure to rise. The change of pressure indicates sound and measure its intensity.
  - This is not affected by scattering.

##### 3.2.3.1 Black carbon
- The black carbon mass was determined from the black carbon absorption coefficient measured using the filter membrane method.
- Single particle soot photometer (SP2). The intensity of this thermal radiation is directly proportional to the mass of the black carbon. The mass of the black carbon is determined based on the calibration curve and the measured thermal radiation values.
  - SP2 combines with DMA to measure mass of black carbon by size.

#### 3.2.4 Extinction Coefficient
Order of magnitude of the absorption coefficient: 10 Mm-1 = 0.01 km-1.

Online:
- Cavity Ring Down
- scattering (nephelometer) + absorption (PSAP)
Compaign:
- Transmissive Visibility Meter
- Scattering-type visibility meter
##### 3.2.4.1 Cavity Ring Down
The laser pulse is introduced into the optical cavity, where it repeatedly passes through the sample atmosphere. Since the light intensity in the optical cavity decays exponentially over time.
$$
I = I_0 \exp (-kct)
$$
Ring Down time: the time it takes for the light intensity to reach 1/e of its initial value.
For vaccum, $k_0c\tau_0 = 1$, for air, $(k_0+k_e)c\tau_p = 1$, therefore
$$
k_e = \frac{1}{c} (\frac{1}{\tau_p}-\frac{1}{\tau_0})
$$

#### 3.2.4.2 Transmissive Visibility Meter
$I = I_0\exp(-k_eR)$
#### 3.2.4.3 Scattering-type visibility meter
Estimating the aerosol extinction coefficient by measuring the forward-scattered light at a specific angle. Assume
$$
\frac{k_e}{\beta(\theta)} = \frac{\int \sigma_e(r)n(r)dr}{\int \sigma(\theta,\varphi,r)n(r)dr} = Constant
$$
Select suitable angle to let these two have a fixed proportional relation.

### 3.2.5 Sounding of Scattering/Absorption/Extinction coefficient
#### 3.2.5.1 Scattering coefficient
Airborne Nephelometer

#### 3.2.5.2 Absorption coefficient
Airborne PSAP or Photoacoustic instrument

#### 3.2.5.3 Extinction coefficient
- Airborne nephelometer + PSAP/Photoacoustic
- Cavity Ring Down
- Sun photometer
  - at different altitude to measure AOD $\tau(z)$, then $k_e = \frac{d\tau(z)}{dz}$
- LiDAR, including MPL/CALIPSO
  - Backscatter lidar
    - Elastic backscattering lidar like Micro Pulse Lidar, assume a fixed radar ratio $S= \frac{k_e}{\beta}$;
    - Raman (inelastic backscattering) Lidar. Measure elastic signal and inelastic signal at the same time. Usually in night to observe Raman signal;
  - DIfferential Absorption Lidar, gas concentration
    - emit two lights with different wavelength, one can be absorbed and the other can not. Also measure aerosol extinction and backscattering using non-absorptive wavelengths.
  - Doppler lidar, velocity
- derive from PSD


### 3.2.6 Aerosol Optical Depth
- Sun photometer, can measure AOD at aspecific place.
- Satellite Remote sensing.
Using sunlight as light source, the intensity of direct solar radiation at the ground level using a sun photometer (which varies with zenith angle) is measured, it is possible to determine the transmittance of the entire atmosphere or vertical AOD.
$S = S_0\exp \left[-\tau \sec\theta \right]$

Angstrom wavelength index
AOD rely on wavelength, there is a empirical formula
$$
\frac{\tau(\lambda)}{\tau(\lambda_0)} = \left(\frac{\lambda}{\lambda_0}\right)^{-\alpha}
$$
where $\alpha$ is angstrom wavelength index. It is inversely proportional to the average particle radius. Therefore, its value can be used to qualitatively describe the size of the particles.

> NOTE: When the observed aerosol optical depth or extinction coefficient is high, this may be due to two factors: One is high aerosol concentration, the other is high relative humidity, causing increased extinction due to hygroscopic growth of the aerosols.Therefore, using optical depth or extinction coefficient to represent aerosol abundance is highly uncertain.

## LECTURE 4: CCN AND IN
Understand the capability of aerosols as CCN or IN, improve cloud activation and ice nucleation theoretical model, use observation to examine some theories.

### 4.1 Theory

#### 4.1.1 CCN number concentration, PSD, and aerosol-CCN closure


#### 4.1.2 ($\kappa$) Kohler theory
$$
S_K = (1-\frac{3 i N_s}{4\pi \rho_w n_L r_d^3})\exp \left( \frac{2\sigma }{n_LR^*Tr_d}\right) \approx 1+\frac{A}{r_d} - \frac{BiN_s}{r_d^3}\\
A = \frac{2\sigma}{n_LR^*T},\quad B = \frac{3}{4\pi n_L}
$$
Critical saturation ratio and supersaturation ratio
$$
S_c = 1+\left( \frac{4A^3}{27BiN_s}\right)^{1/2},\quad  s_c = \left( \frac{4A^3}{27BiN_s}\right)^{1/2},\quad N_s = \frac{4\pi r_s^3\rho_s}{3M_s}
$$
Therefore,
$$
s_c = \left( \frac{A^3M_s}{9\pi Bi\rho_s r_s^3} \right)^{1/2} = \left( \frac{A^3}{9\pi B r_s^3\kappa }\frac{M_w}{\rho_w} \right)^{1/2}
$$
The larger the dry aerosol size (i.e.,more solute), the lower the critical supersatrturation ratio, the easier to activate into cloud droplets.

How to calculate CCN number conc. and PSD?
Given supersaturation ratio and aerosol PSD, if given composition, calculate cutoff radius from Kohler theory; if if given $\kappa$, calculate cutoff radius from $\kappa$-Kohler theory.

How to get $\kappa$ from CCN measurement?
Given supersaturation $s_c$, find out the minimum size of aerosols to activate (DMA select a size and goes to CCN counter), which is $r_s$. Therefore calculate $\kappa$ from $s_c-r_s$ relation in $\kappa$-Kohler theory.

#### 4.1.3 IN number concentration and efficiency
Aerosols can act as Ice Nuclei: **dust, biological aerosols like pollen and bacteria, black carbon, organic carbon.**

**Different kinds of Ice Nuclei nucleate into ice at different temperature.**

Ice Nuclei conc. with range $0.1\sim 100 /L$.

##### 4.1.3.1 Four Ways Ice Nuclei Promote Ice Crystal Formation
heterogeneous nucleation.
- Deposition nucleation
- Contact nucleation
- Freezing nucleation
  - Condensation freezing
  - Immersion freezing

### 4.2 Measurement

#### 4.2.1 CCN number conc. CCN Counter

##### 4.2.1.1 Continuous Flow Thermal Diffusion Chamber
- Upper plate is at a lower $T$, while the lower plate is at a higher $T$, resulting in a linear $T$ distribution;
- Liquid water is present on both the upper and lower plate, creating a linear distribution of $p_v$;
- The nonlinear relationship between saturated water $p_v$ and T leads to the formation of supersaturation;

Upper $T_c$, lower $T_w$, $T_w>T_c$, distance $L$.
**Fourier's law** $\Phi_q = -k\frac{dT}{dx}$, stable, $\frac{dT}{dx} = const$. Therefore $T = T_w-\frac{T_w-T_c}{L}x$.
**Fick's law** $\Phi_m = -D\frac{dn}{dx}$, stable, $\frac{dn}{dx} = const$. Therefore $n(x) = n_s(T_w)-\frac{n_s(T_w)-n_s(T_c)}{L}x$.
$p=nkT$, neglect variation of $T$, therefore for saturated vapor pressure $e(x) = e_s(T_w)-\frac{e_s(T_w)-e_s(T_c)}{L}x$

**Vapor distribution is linear, but saturated vapor pressure is nonlinear, therefore there is saturation in middle place.**

##### 4.2.1.2 Continuous Flow Streamwise Thermal Gradient CCN Counter

The direction of flow is parallel to $-\nabla T$. Water molecule diffuses faster than air molecule due to smaller mass. Therefore water molecules spend less time to diffuse to a same distance perpendicular to the $\nabla T$. This leads to a shift on the source of $n_s$ and $T$ and results in saturation.


#### 4.2.2 CCN PSD
DMA to select some size and CCN counter to measure CCN conc..

#### 4.2.3 IN 

##### 4.2.3.1 Continuous Flow Diffusion Chamber
Similar to Continuous Flow Thermal Diffusion Chamber CCN counter but for vapor pressure over ice.

Usually saturated over water to form cloud droplets and freeze into ice. Cloud droplets and ice go through evaporation zone with ice growing and droplets evaporating (WBF process), left ice alone. Then measure ice conc. by OPC.

##### 4.3.3.2 Coutinuous Flow Mixing Chamber
Mixing of two flow to reach supersaturation. One is dry with low $T$, the other is wet with high $T$. **The supersaturation ratio changes rapidly by changing the velocity of two flows.** With OPC to count.

Parcel 1 with ($T_1$, $e_1$, $m_1$), parcel 2 with ($T_2$, $e_2$, $m_2$), $T_1>T_2$. mixed parcel with ($T$, $e$, $m$).
In mixed parcel, mass proportion of 1 is x, 2 is (1-x). $x = \frac{m_1}{m_1+m_2} = \frac{N_1}{N_1+N_2}$.
Energy conservation:
$$
c_p\frac{m_1}{M}(T_1-T) = c_p \frac{m_2}{M}(T-T_2) \rightarrow T = \frac{m_1T_1+m_2T_2}{m_1+m_2} = xT_1+(1-x)T_2
$$
Water mass conservation:
$$
y_{v} = xy_{v1}+(1-x)y_{v2},\quad e = xe_1+(1-x)e_2
$$
There might $e>e_s(T)$, saturated.


##### 4.3.3.3 Expansion Cloud Chamber
Expansion and cooling. See LECTURE 9

##### 4.3.3.4 Isothermal Static Diffusion Chamber
See LECTURE 9
##### 4.3.3.5 Contact Freezing
See LECTURE 9
##### 4.3.3.6 Member Filter Measurement
See LECTURE 9
##### 4.3.3.7 Electrodynamic Balance Levitation
See LECTURE 9


## LECTURE 5: CLOUD MICROPHYSICS OPTICS
Observing the size distribution and shape of cloud particles can help to understand the radiative processes occuring within clouds. The radiative properties of clouds determine precipitation, their optical properties, and their short-wave and long-wave radiative effects, as well as the chemical processes taking place within them (such as the removal of trace gases and aerosols).

Observation of clouds includes:
- Satellite remote sensing: cloud coverage, cloud top height, cloud depth, aerosol, cloud droplets size&number, IW/,LWP, precipitation.
- Ground Precipitation Radar: precipitation
- Photos
- Airborne cloud radar: updraft, LWC
- Airborne microphysical properties: size, shape, and PSD of cloud hydrometeors&aerosols
- Airborne/Ground aerosol sampling: aerosol composition

### 5.1 Theory

#### 5.1.1 Cloud Category
High clouds (ice): cirroculumus, cirrostratus, cirrus
Middle clouds (mixed): altocumulus, altostratus, nimbostratus
Low clouds (water): stratocumulus, stratus, cumulus
Cumulonimbus

**Cirrus warm the globe while cumulus&stratocumulus cool the globe at climate scale.**
**Weather Modification: altostratus.**
#### 5.1.2 Cloud droplets number conc., size, and PSD
typical CCN: $0.1\mu m$ with range $0.01\mu m-1\mu m$, conc. $1e8/m^3$, velocity $1e-6m/s$;
typical cloud droplets: $10\mu m$ with range $1-100\mu m$, conc. $1e8/m^3$ (same as CCN), velocity $1e-6 m/s$;
large cloud droplets: $50\mu m$, conc. $1e6/m^3$, velocity $0.27 m/s$;
edge of cloud droplets and raindrops: $100\mu m$, velocity $0.7 m/s$
typical raindrops: $1000\mu m$ with range $>100\mu m$, conc. $1e3/m^3$ ($1/L$), velocity $6.5 m/s$;


Marine cumulus has less aerosols but larger, resulting in the less (several tens per cm3) but larger cloud droplets (reach to $40 \mu m$). Continental cumulus has more aerosols but smaller, resulting in the more (several hundreds per cm3) but smaller cloud droplets (reach to $20 \mu m$).
#### 5.1.3 Ice crystals number conc., shape
Ice crystals conc. is $1/L$ with range $0.01-100/L$ (same as IN).
The lower the cloud top $T$, the more the ice crystals are.

Shape:
**Plate: $0\sim -3$ degC and $-8\sim -22$ degC;**
**Column: $-3\sim -8$ degC and below $-22$ degC;**
Ice collides with ice to form snow, but collides with supercooled water to form graupel/hail.

#### 5.1.4 Scattering phase function, Asymmetry factor, and Extinction coefficient.


### 5.2 Measurement
Problem for cloud detection
**might shatter due to collide with instruments (shattering);**
**more than one particles through the light field at once (coincidence).**

#### 5.2.0 Sample Volume

There might be two particles into the light field at the same time and be considered as a whole larger particle (coincidence). Therefore instruments need to detect a enough small volume to detect less than 1 particle.

Sample Volume: $V = S\cdot v_a\cdot \Delta t$, $v_a\approx 100m/s$.
Assume the number concentration of the particles is $n$, then the mean number of particle in sample volume is $\bar{N} = n\cdot V$, therefore $V\approx \frac{1}{n}$.

**It is generally believed that cloud particles are randomly distributed in space and are homogeneous overall.** Therefore the number of particles observed in volume $V$ follows a **Poisson** distribution with
$$
P(N) = \frac{\bar{N}^N}{N!}e^{-\bar{N}}, \bar{N} = nV
$$
In order to prevent coincidence
$$
\sum_{N=1}^\infty P(X=N)= 1-e^{-\bar{N}}\rightarrow 0
$$
Therefore the less $\bar{N}=nV$ is, the better.

For cloud droplets, number conc. is about several hundred per cm^3, so the magnitude order of $V$ is mm^3; for raindrops, number conc. is about several per liter, so the magnitude order of $V$ is cm^3.

The sample interval $\Delta T$ of cloud droplets is about 1e-5s.


#### 5.2.1 Single particle light scattering (scattering) to get size
##### 5.2.1.1 Forward Scattering Specirometer Probe (up to $40\mu m$)
Single particle goes through the LASER and scatters, get size according to the intensity of scattering light. Get the particle conc. based on sample volume and frequency of light pulse. Assume the shape is spherical.
**Effective radius**
$$
r_e = \frac{\overline{r^3}}{\overline{r^2}} = \frac{\int_0^\infty r^3n(r)dr}{\int_0^\infty r^2n(r)dr}
$$

Effective radius characterizes the optical properties of clouds.
**Given fixed LWC, all kinds of distributions of cloud droplets has same extinction coefficients as long as they have same effective radius $r_e$.**

According to definition:
$$
k_e^{real} = \int_0^\infty \sigma_e n(r)dr = \int_0^\infty Q_e \pi r^2 n(r)dr,\quad IWC^{real} = \frac{4\pi\rho_w}{3} \int_0^\infty r^3n(r)dr
$$
For large cloud droplets, the radius (several to tens of $\mu m$) is much larger than wavelength ($0.5\mu m$), therefore the $Q_e\rightarrow 2$ in Mie scattering.
For a group of virtual cloud droplets with uniform radius $r_e$, there is
$$
k_e^{ideal} = 2\pi r_e^2 N,\quad LWC^{ideal} = \frac{4}{3}\pi r_e^3 \rho_w N
$$
Since they have same water content, therfore
$$
N = \frac{3LWC^{real}}{4\pi \rho_w r_e^3} = \frac{\int_0^\infty r^3n(r)dr}{r_e^3}\\
k_e^{ideal} = 2\pi r_e^2 N = 2\pi \frac{\int_0^\infty r^3n(r)dr}{r_e} = 2\pi \int_0^\infty r^2 n(r)dr = k_e^{real}
$$

##### 5.2.1.2 Fast FSSP
##### 5.2.1.3 Cloud Droplet Probe (belongs to FSSP)
##### 5.2.1.4 Cloud Aerosol Spectrometer-DePOLarization
##### 5.2.1.5 Cloud Particle Spectrometer Depolarization
##### 5.2.1.6 Phase Doppler Interferometer
The laser beam is split into two beams, which act as coherent light sources and produce interference fringes. When a particle passes through the interference fringe region, the scattered light also forms interference fringes. By analyzing the scattered light from the particle, we can determine the particle’s size and velocity. This is independent of
the intensity of the light source and the intensity of the scattered light.

#### 5.2.2 Single particle imaging (image) to get size and shape
Light is directed at the detector. When a particle passes through the light field, it casts a shadow on the detector. This allows us to determine the particle's size and shape.


##### 5.2.2.1 2D Cloud probe
##### 5.2.2.2 2D Precipitation probe
##### 5.2.2.3 2D Stereo probe
##### 5.2.2.4 Cloud Imaging Probe
##### 5.2.2.5 Cloud Particle Imager
##### 5.2.2.6 High Volume Particle Spectrometer

#### 5.2.3 Impaction (impact marks, $10-100\mu m$) to get size and shape

##### 5.2.3.1 Video Ice-Particle Sampler
##### 5.2.3.2 Cloud Scope


#### 5.2.4 Cloud Optical Properties
##### 5.2.4.1 Polar Nephelometer
scattering phase function

##### 5.2.4.2 Cloud Integrating Nephelometer
Extinction coefficient and asymmetry factor

Two forward scattering and two back scattering.

##### 5.2.4.3 Cloud Extinction Probe
Extinction coefficient

##### 5.2.4.4 Particle Volume Monitor
LWC and Extinction coefficient
## LECTURE 6: CLOUD WATER HUMIDITY TURBULENCE
Liquid Water Content and Ice Water Content determine precipitation and both longwave and shortwave radiative properties.
Water vapor determines the cloud base height, IWC, and LWC.
The radiation effects of water vapor is strong, absorbing near-infrared radiation, absorbing and emitting infrared radiation.

Turbulence determines the vertical transport, entrainment and mixing process with environmental air. Vertical updraft also influence the supersaturation ratio and number of activated cloud droplets.

Stronger updraft have bigger supersaturation ratio happening at a higher latitude and more cloud droplets.

### 6.1 Theory

#### 6.1.1 LWC, IWC, vapor and updraft

LWC in stratocumulus is uaually horizontally uniform with $0.1\sim 1g/m^3$, approaching to adiabatic parcel, indicating weak mixing. Updraft velocity $1m/s$.
LWC in cumulus is not horizontally uniform with $1g/m^3$ in shallow cumulus and a dozen or so g/m^3 in deep convection, less than adiabatic parcel, indicating strong mixing.
Mixing ratio of water vapor: a dozen or so g/kg in boundary layer, one to two g/kg in the Arctic.

### 6.2 Measurement

#### 6.2.1 LWC & IWC

##### 6.2.1.1 Thermal techniques
- Hot Wire: Constant-wire-temperature to measure LWC/IWC/TWC. Like King probe or Novzerov probe.
- Rosemount Icing Detector: based on vibration frequenct to measure supercooled water content.

##### 6.2.1.2 Optical techniques
Particle Volume Monitor: LWC/extinction corfficient


##### 6.2.1.3 Integrating from PSD


#### 6.2.2 Vapor

##### 6.2.2.1 Chilled-Mirror Dew Point Hygrometer
Most precise but long response time(min).
Based on dew point or frost point, get water vapor pressure and so for water vapor mass mixing ratio.

##### 6.2.2.2 Thin Film Capacitance Hygrometer
Short response time(1s). Change of vapor concentration cause changes in the dielectric constant.


##### 6.2.2.3 Lyman-Alpha Hygrometer
Absorption of water vapor in the Lyman-alpha band (121.56 nm). Very short response time (10-100 Hz) but can not used alone, need to be calibrated.

##### 6.2.2.4 IR Absorption Hygrometer
Dual wavelength differential absorption technique, one($2.6\mu m$) is high absorbed by vapor the other one ($2.3 \mu m$) is not. Same methods can be used for other gas concentration like CO2.


#### 6.2.3 Turbulence

##### 6.2.3.1 Hot Wire Anemometer
power to heat hot wire $w$ satisfies
$$
w = UA(T_{ses}-T_f)
$$
where $U$ is transmission coefficient, $A$ is area, $T_f$ is the temperature of flow and $T_{ses}$ is the temperature of sensor. From $w$ to get $U$, then get velocity $u$ according to
$$
U = \frac{0.24\kappa}{d}+0.56\kappa\sqrt{\frac{ud}{\nu}} = a+b\sqrt{u}
$$

##### 6.2.3.2 Laser Doppler Anemometer
$$
f' = f\left( 1+ \frac{v\cos\theta}{c} \right) 
$$
Based on two frequency shifts from two lasers, can get velocity without knowing the angle of velocity.

## LECTURE 7: CLOUD SATELLITE
### 7.1 Global Distribution and Radiation Effect
polar: stratus (cooling effect)
tropic: cirrus anvil (warming effect), deep convection

### 7.2 Satellite measurement about cloud properties
A(fternoon)-Train combines with several polar satellites, including EOS-Terra (10:30LST), EOS-Aqua(1330LST), Aura(leave in 2009), Calipso(Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observation, aerosols), OCO-2(orbiting carbon ovservatory).

Sensors on Terra:
- MODIS: moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer, 0.4-14.4$\mu m$ with 36 channels
- MISR: multiangle imaging spectroradiometer, AOD
- ASTER: advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer (high resolution)
- MOPITT: measurement of pollution in the troposphere
- CERES: clouds and the earth's radiant energy system

Other often-used sensors:
- AVHRR: advanced very high resolution radiometer
- TOMS: total ozone mapping spectrometer
- POLDER: Polarization and Directionality of the Earth's Reflectance

**Principle: measure radiative energy to inverse properties of atmosphere and ground.**

#### 7.2.1 Cloud average and dist.
Cloud mask
In visible region: radiance comes from reflection of sunlight. Radiance(reflectance) > threshold is clouds (clouds reflect more sunlight).
In infrared region: radiance comes from their own emission. Calculate brightmess from Planck equation. Brightness temperature < threshold is clouds (enough high altitude).

**Results (cloud cover) obtained from different instruments vary significantly.**

#### 7.2.2 Cloud top height, $p$ or $T$
- ISCCP: international satellite cloud climatology project. Based on multi satellite observations. From radiance to beightness temperature (assume black body), to cloud top temperature (need correction if cloud is too thin), to pressure (atmosphere $p-T$ sounding).
- MODIS: similar to ISCCP.
- MISR: only above ocean to inverse cloud top height based on parallax method (do NOT rely on radiance)


#### 7.2.3 Optical Depth
- ISCCP: radiance of a band to inverse optical depth by 1d radiation transport model, need ground reflectance, scattering phase function, single scattering albedo,neglecting aerosol's AOD.
  - if infrared brightness temperature at cloud top is above 260K, assume $10 \mu m$ size cloud droplets.
  - if infrared brightness temperature at cloud top is below 260K, assume $30 \mu m$ size ice crystals.
- MODIS: two band radiance to inverse optical depth and effective radius.
  - one is visible, cloud hydrometeors do not absorb, sensitive to optical depth;
  - one is infrared, cloud hydrometeors do absorb, sensitive to particle size;
- MISR: similar to ISCCP.

Considering 1d radiation transport model with only once scattering, the radiance achieving top atmosphere is

$$
I(0) = I(\tau_0)\exp {\left[-\frac{\tau_0}{\mu}\right]} - \frac{\omega F_0}{4\pi \mu \left(\frac{1}{\mu_0}-\frac{1}{\mu} \right)}P\left( \mu , \phi; \mu_0,\phi_0 \right)\left[1-\exp \left( \tau_0(\frac{1}{\mu_0}-\frac{1}{\mu}) \right) \right]
$$
First term is reflectance of ground and will be 0 if dark background. Second term is scattering of atmosphere.

Given phase function $P$, single scattering albedo $\omega$, indident direction $\mu_0 = \cos\theta_0$, and exit direction $\mu = \cos \theta$

> NOTE: Cloud fraction with MOD08 is calculated from Optical Depth, while MOD35 is calculated from Cloud Detection.

#### 7.2.4 Effective Radius
At visible bands (mainly scatter), reflectance is more sensitive to optical depth while at infrared bands (mainly absorb), relfectance is more sensitive to reffective radius.
Combine a visible band and a infrared band,


#### 7.2.5 LWP/IWP
$$
\tau = \int k_e(z)dz = \int\int_0^\infty \pi r^2Q_{sca}n(r)drdz = 2\int \pi r_e^2Ndz\\
LWP =\int LWC(z)dz = \int_{zbase}^{ztop}\int_0^\infty \frac{4\pi}{3} r^3\rho_w n(r)drdz = \int\frac{4\pi}{3}\rho_w r_e^3Ndz
$$
Assume $r_e$ do not vary with $z$, therefore
$$
\tau = 2\pi r_e^2\int Ndz,\quad LWP = \frac{4\pi}{3}\rho_w r_e^3 \int Ndz\rightarrow \tau = \frac{3}{2\rho_w}\frac{LWP}{r_e}
$$

From $\tau$ and $r_e$, derives $LWP$

Combined with (adiabatic) cloud parcel model, calculater the vertical distribution of IWC in clouds and integrate to get LWP. Compare LWP with satellite observed to get cloud base temperature (height, pressure). Number concentration can also be calculated by similar way.

#### 7.2.6 Phase
MODIS collection 6
- VOTE 1:Cloud Optical Thickness/Cloud Top Temperature
  - COT > 2, CTT > 270K: Liquid;
  - COT < 2, CTT > 270K: Possibly liquid;
  - 260K < CTT < 270K: Possibly liquid;
  - 240K < CTT < 260K: undetermined
  - CTT < 240K: Possibly ice
- VOTE 2: ice absorb more than water in 2.1$\mu m$ band, therefore has lower reflectance.
- VOTE 3: 1.38 $\mu m $ is a strong absorption band of vapor, therefore almost all radiance from 1.38$\mu m$ band comes from cirrus at upper troposphere.


## LECTURE 8: CLOUD RADAR AND LIDAR
### 8.1 Radar Theory
| bands | wavelength |    frequency   |
|:-----:|:----------:|:--------------:|
|   W   |     3mm    |  94(75-110)GHz |
|   Ka  |     8mm    |  35(27-40)GHz  |
|   Ku  |    2.2cm   | 13.4(12-18)GHz |
|   X   |    3.2cm   | 9.4(8-12.5)GHz |
|   C   |     5cm    |   5.4(4-8)GHz  |
|   S   |    10cm    |   2.8(2-4)GHz  |
#### 8.1 Radar Reflectivity
$x = \frac{2\pi a}{\lambda}\ll 1$, Rayleigh scattering.

Backscattering cross section $\sigma \propto \frac{D^6}{\lambda^4}$, radar reflectivity factor $Z = \int_0^\infty D^6 n(D)dD$, radar reflectivity is proportional to $\frac{Z}{\lambda^4}$

If measure cloud droplets by weather radar, $x$ is too small to see valid reflectivity (>20dBZ), therefore weather radar can NOT observe cloud droplets but K/W bands cloud radar can.

Relationship between $Z$ and precipitation rate $R$
$Z = 200 R^{1.6}$ for rain and $Z = 2000R^2$ for snow, where
$$
R = \frac{4}{3}\pi \int_0^\infty r^3n(r)v(r)dr
$$
is the volume of liquid water passing through a unit horizontal area per unit time.

### 8.2 Weather Radar
Weather Radar combined with Doppler Laser Rdar can give the dynamical structure of clouds.

### 8.3 Cloud Radar
Open cell region has more precipitation and strong reflectivity on cloud radar while cloused cell has less precipitation and weak reflectivity.

### 8.4 LiDAR and Cloud Radar
Cloud radar can capture lots of clouds but can NOT ovserve thin clouds like stratocumulus and cirrus, but LiDAR can capture thin clouds with weak penetration (Optical Depth < 2~3).

While there is precipitation, cloud radar can NOT resolve cloud base which can be done by LiDAR (strong attenuation at cloud base).

**Therefore, combined radar and lidar observations can determine the upper and lower boundaries of clouds**, giving reflectivity factor $Z$, extinction coefficient $k_e$, backscattering coefficient $\beta(\pi)$ to compare with airborne measurement.

**Summary about the methods to measure clou top/base**
- About cloud top
  - MODIS: infrared radiation to brightness temperature to cloud top temperature to height/pressure;
  - MISE: parallax to get altitude;
  - Cloud radar
  - Thin clouds: LiDAR ABOVE clouds
- About cloud base
  - MODIS: based on LWP and $T_{top}$, using adiabatic parcel to calculate cloud base;
  - no precipitation: cloud radar
  - weak precipitation: LiDAR below cloud
  - airborne LWC: calculate from aidabatic parcel model
  - if the boundary layer is well mixed, LCL can be estimated using water vapor content beneath cloud (from Lyman-Alpha hygrometer)
**Summary about the methods to measure LWC/IWC**
- hot wire, Particle Volume Monitor
- airborne light scattering or imaging probe and integrate on PSD;
- Cloud radar + LiDAR


Summary about some compaign
- ARM: atmospheric radiation measurement
- DYCOMES: dynamics and chemistry of marine stratocumulus
- EPIC: the east pacific investigation of climate
- MPACE: mixed-phase arctiv cloud experiment
- RICO: rain in cumulus over the ocean
- SGP: southern great plain
- VOCALS: the VOMOS ocean-cloud-atmosphere-land study regional experiment

## LECTURE 9: CLOUD LABORATORY
Lab instruments measuring Ice Nuclei (offline)

### 9.1 Expansion Cloud Chamber
During adiabatic expansion of air, the pressure and temperature decrease, and both the vapor pressure and the saturated vapor pressure decrease; however, the vapor saturation ratio increases.
Measure the Ice Nuclei about deposition nucleation, condensation freezing, and immersion freezing.
$$
\frac{dS}{dt} = \frac{d}{dt}\left(\frac{e}{e_s}\right) = \frac{1}{e_s}\frac{de}{dt}-\frac{e}{e_s^2}\frac{de_s}{dt}
$$
since $e = y_vp$, $\frac{de}{dt} = y_v\frac{dp}{dt}$ for dry adiabatic process (consider variation of $y_v$ if wet adiabatic process).
$$
\frac{de_s}{dt} = \frac{de_s}{dT}\frac{dT}{dt} = \frac{e_sL_v}{R^*T^2}\frac{dT}{dt}
$$
Therefore
$$
\frac{dS}{dt} = \frac{y_v}{e_s}\frac{dp}{dt}-\frac{e}{e_s}\frac{L_v}{R^*T^2}\frac{dT}{dt}\\
c_p\frac{dT}{dt} = \frac{R^*T}{pM_d}\frac{dp}{dt}\\
\frac{dS}{dt} = \frac{y_v p c_p M_d}{e_sR^*T}\frac{dT}{dt}-\frac{e}{e_s}\frac{L_v}{R^*T^2}\frac{dT}{dt} = \frac{S}{R^*T} \left(\frac{L_v}{T}-{c_pM_d} \right)\left(-\frac{dT}{dt}\right)\\
$$
First term is decrease of temperature, the saturated vapor pressure is decreasing, while the second term indicating that water vapor molecules are diluted to reduce saturation ratio.

The problem is that the evacuation time is relatively short to maintain a cloud for a long time.
> NOTE: PI chamber in Michigan Tech Univ have different modes, including expansion, static diffusion, or turbulent mode.
### 9.2 Cold Stage/cold plate


Measure the Ice Nuclei about deposition nucleation, condensation freezing, and immersion freezing.

#### 9.2.1 CS-FDC: cold stage - flow diffusion chamber
When water vapor enters the cloud chamber, it flows over a cold surface, becoming supersaturated, and ice nucleation occurs on the aerosol particles on the cold plate. Measure the proportion of ice nuclei involved in ice nucleation relative to the total aerosol mass.


Measure the Ice Nuclei about deposition nucleation, condensation freezing, and immersion freezing.

#### 9.2.2 ISDC: isothermal static diffusion chamber
Like cold stage or Continuous Flow Thermal Diffusion Chamber.

#### 9.2.3 DFA: droplet freezing array
Like cold stage

### 9.3 Contact Freezing (can online)
There are some **active sites** at the surface of ice nuclei. The more effective the ice nuclei is, the higher the density of active sites are.

Therefore, the size of ice nuclei and ability to form ice (active sites density $n_s(T)$) determine the ice nucleation on ice nuclei.

The fraction of ice nuclei in aerosol at temperature $T$ satisfies
$$
\ln (1-F) = \int_{T_0}^Tn_s(T)SdT,\quad -dN_u = N_un_s(T)SdT
$$

For immersion freezing, $n_s$ is a function of $T$, for deposition nucleation, $n_s$ is a function of $T$ and supersaturation ratio $s$.

### 9.4 Membrane filter measurement
Aerosols are sampled on membrane filter and mesured in lab.

**Memory effect of IN: Ice forms more easier when aerosols are acted as ice nuclei repeatedly.**


### 9.5 Electrodynamic balance levitation
Using electric field suspension technology to keep water droplets suspended allows aerosol particles to collide with the droplets, resulting in contact nucleation. Like Single Particle Levitation in LECTURE 2. 

### 9.6 Wind Tunnel Technique
After supercooled water droplets are suspended by a vertical airflow, the aerosol particles can cause the droplets to freeze into ice crystals through contact nucleation.


## LECTURE 10: AEROSOL LAB CLOUD FIELD EXPERIMENTS





### 10.1 Laboratory

#### 10.1.1 Formation of Secondary Aerosols (new particle formation)

Number conc. of total aerosol is high, but number conc. of large aerosols is low, indicating lots of small particles formed.

#### 10.1.2 Aerosol aging/coating/growth

Some organic coating can influence (increase or decrease) the ability of dust as ice nuclei obviously.

#### 10.1.3 Properties based on aging

### 10.2 Aerosl Field Compaign



### 10.3 Cloud Field Compaign
Secondary ice production
